I have been working full-time for the past 3 years after completing my undergraduate degree. My work assignments with my employers have been richly varied, cutting across software design, architecture, development of software products.

The last 6 months, too have been primarily invested at work, though, I have also been devoting around 25-30 hours a week on self-learning in areas relevant to machine learning (ML) theory, concepts, frameworks, and applications. I took this upon me primarily to give some kind of a decent heads-up to myself for the rigors I expect during my Master's. At work, my assignments have broadly been related to development of customized and value-added digital platforms and applications for ecommerce and electronic marketplaces for clients.

I have been largely involved in coding and programming, and am now focused on designing utilities that bring on unique, highly specialized and differentiated user experiences on client e-commerce platforms. I lead various teams that study up client needs as well as the purchase and online shopping behavior in client's space and market segments, and then, we customize interface engines, under-the-bonnet analytics, and other utilities for the client's platform to lend it the required competitive and differentiation edge.

In these past few months, ‎I have been appreciated for my ability to conduct rapid and more complete requirement studies in which I use the EcoSystem and benchmarking approaches to assess also the offline elements of a client's business and the dynamics of shopping in its segments. This has helped me do a closer, more realistic assessment of client needs and resulted in sharply useful platform applications.

On the learning front, I have completed several online courses related to ML and the three more significant of these are:

Machine Learning by Andrew Ng - Stanford University-covering Supervised learning (parametric/non-parametric algorithms, support vector machines, neural networks); Unsupervised learning (clustering, dimensionality reduction, recommender systems, deep learning), and Best practices in ML (bias/variance theory; innovation process in AI)

John Hopkin’s Course in Data Science for Practical Machine Learning – covering a range of model based and algorithmic ML methods including regression, classification trees, Naive Bayes, and random forests

Prof. Brian Williams’ (MIT) course on Principles of Autonomy and Decision Making: Covering concepts and techniques in a cross-section of reasoning, optimization and decision making methodologies for creating highly autonomous decision support aids